---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

# Welcome to Mylemans Online!

Hello, tech enthusiasts of all ages! I'm Marc, and this is my corner of the web, your ultimate destination for all things IT. Join me on this exciting cyber adventure as we explore the digital landscape together.

Hailing from the charming land of Belgium, I'm on a mission to share my tech journey, one blog post at a time. My content dives into the fascinating world of IT troubleshooting, offering a blend of discovery, learning, and practical advice. Whether you're a seasoned pro or just starting out, you'll find valuable insights here.

## Why Mylemans Online?

At Mylemans Online, I strive to create a welcoming space for tech lovers of all levels. My blog posts are designed to be both informative and engaging, providing you with the knowledge you need to tackle tech challenges with confidence. From in-depth tutorials to quick tips, there's something for everyone.

## Join the Community

But wait, there's more! I'm not just writing about tech; I'm also sharing my adventures on my YouTube channel. There, you'll find a treasure trove of video tutorials that brings my written content to life. If you're up for some visual tech thrills, head over to [my YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@mylemansonline) and hit that subscribe button. Together, we'll unlock the secrets of the tech universe in both written and video form.

{% include tipeee.html %}

## Stay Connected

I believe in the power of community and continuous learning. That's why I encourage you to leave comments, ask questions, and share your own experiences. Let's learn and grow together in this ever-evolving tech world.

## Google Analytics

We use Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"), to collect, monitor, and analyze how users interact with the site. Google Analytics uses "cookies," which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze user behavior.

The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google. Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, compile reports on website activity, and provide other services relating to website activity and internet usage.

Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.

You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser. However, please note that if you do this, you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website.

---

Feel free to explore, engage, and enjoy the content here at Mylemans Online. Let's make tech fun!

Best,
Marc

---
## My CV

### Professional Summary
Experienced system engineer with a diverse background in technical support, PC and network troubleshooting, and system deployment. Adept at managing complex projects and providing high-quality consultancy and customer auditing services. Expertise in O365 migrations and IT management consultancy. Passionate about technology and always tinkering with computers to stay updated with the latest advancements. Maintains a tech YouTube channel, blog, and GitHub repository showcasing technical knowledge and project experience. Looking to leverage my skills and expertise in a challenging and growth-oriented environment.

### Work Experience

#### NTX BV
**Senior System Engineer**  
Mechelsesteenweg 25, 2650 Edegem  
01/07/2023 - current date  

- Continued responsibilities and knowledge from previous roles, focusing on networking, infrastructure, Hyper-V clustering, SAN storage, Intune, and modern workplace solutions.
- Managed and optimized network infrastructure for improved performance and reliability.
- Implemented and maintained Hyper-V clusters and SAN storage solutions.
- Provided expert support and deployment of Intune and modern workplace technologies.
- Conducted consultancy for O365 migrations and acted as an IT manager for clients, offering strategic guidance and technical support.

#### ACCEL COMPUTER SERVICE NV (Second Term)
**System Engineer**  
Mechelsesteenweg 25, 2650 Edegem  
20/04/2015 - 30/06/2023  

- Started as an Level 1 PC Technician, handling system reinstallations, new system installations, and RMA processes.
- Optimized RMA/Warranty processes and implemented an advanced image deployment system.
- Assisted with the Intake team for the service desk, eventually growing into the Service Desk/Installation team.
- Progressed to Medior and Senior System Engineer, responsible for complex projects for customers.
- Conducted consultancy and customer auditing services to improve client infrastructure.
- Achieved certifications and experience in Cyberoam Engineer, Sophos Engineer, Sophos Architect, and Microsoft Professional.
- Gained expertise in Azure, O365, Microsoft deployment services, networking, and remote desktop gateway services.
- Provided consultancy for O365 migrations, helping them with strategic IT planning and implementation.

#### CONSEVA BV
**PC Technician**  
Boomsesteenweg 48, 2630 Aartselaar  
01/02/2011 - 18/04/2015  

- Acted as the head technician at the store location.
- Installed new computers purchased by customers and handled RMA processes.
- Assisted with sales and technical issues related to Telenet services.
- Held responsibility as the head technician in the store.
- Implemented an image deployment system to automate re-installations and new system setups.
- Achieved same-day installation of new computers for clients.

#### ACCEL COMPUTER SERVICE NV (First Term)
**PC Technician**  
Boomsesteenweg 48, 2630 Aartselaar / Mechelsesteenweg 25, 2650 Edegem  
01/09/2008 - 01/02/2011  

- Performed hardware and software installations, repairs, and upgrades.
- Diagnosed and resolved technical issues for clients, ensuring minimal downtime.
- Managed and maintained company computer systems, ensuring optimal performance.
- Provided technical support to clients.
- Implemented and maintained network solutions for small businesses.

#### ACCEL COMPUTER SERVICE NV (Internship)
**Sales/PC Technician**  
Mechelsesteenweg 25, 2650 Edegem  
01/07/2008 - 30/09/2008  

- Assisted customers with purchases, including printers, computers, and accessories.
- Completed sales transactions at the register.
- Worked primarily on Saturdays and when the store needed assistance.
- Transitioned to a PC technician role four days a week, handling computer repairs and maintenance.
- Provided technical support and troubleshooting for customers.

#### MICROMAN NV
**Sales (Student Job)**  
Boomsesteenweg 48, 2630 Aartselaar  
01/07/2006 - 30/06/2007  

- Assisted customers with purchases, from printers to computers and accessories.
- Completed sales transactions at the register.
- Worked primarily on weekends and during school vacations.
- Provided excellent customer service in a retail environment.

### Skills
- Networking
- Infrastructure Management
- Hyper-V Clustering
- SAN Storage
- Intune
- Modern Workplace Solutions
- O365 Migrations
- IT Consultancy
- Technical Support and Troubleshooting
- Image Deployment Systems

### Certifications and Training
- Cyberoam Engineer
- Sophos Engineer
- Sophos Architect
- Microsoft Professional
- Experience in Azure, O365, Microsoft Deployment Services, Networking, Remote Desktop Gateway Services

### Projects
- **YouTube Channel:** Maintains a tech YouTube channel providing tutorials, reviews, and technical insights.
- **Blog:** Regularly updates a blog at [mylemans.online](https://mylemans.online) sharing technical knowledge and learning journeys.
- **GitHub:** Manages a GitHub repository with various projects demonstrating skills in programming, system management, and automation.

### Additional Sections
#### Languages
- English (Fluent)
- Dutch (Native)
